1. The Law of Supply states that, holding other factors constant (ceteris paribus), as the price of a product increases, the quantity supplied will: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge IGCSE 0455; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Decrease
B. Increase
C. Remain unchanged
D. Shift the supply curve leftward

2. A movement along a stable supply curve (change in quantity supplied) is caused by a change in: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2021; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Production technology
B. The price of the good itself
C. Raw material factor input costs
D. Business taxation rates

3. Technological progress that increases labor productivity and lowers unit manufacturing costs will cause the supply curve to: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge International AS & A Level 9708; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shift leftward
B. Shift rightward
C. Move upward along the existing curve
D. Become perfectly vertical

4. The imposition of a statutory unit indirect tax (t) on production causes the market supply curve to shift: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: AP Microeconomics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Vertically upward by the exact amount of the tax.
B. Vertically downward by the tax amount.
C. Horizontally rightward by total tax revenue.
D. Downward along the existing supply curve.

5. A government production subsidy paid directly to agricultural producers causes: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: NECO 2020; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. An upward vertical shift of the supply curve.
B. A downward vertical shift of the supply curve (rightward expansion).
C. A leftward contraction in quantity supplied.
D. An immediate rise in market price.

6. Joint supply occurs when two outputs are produced concurrently from a single production process. An example of joint supply is: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: JAMB 2022; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Wheat and barley cultivated on agricultural land.
B. Beef and leather hides derived from cattle.
C. Smartphones and mobile network plans.
D. Automobiles and commercial air transport.

7. Competitive supply occurs when factor inputs can be reallocated between alternative outputs. If the market price of corn increases significantly, the supply of wheat on shared farmland will likely: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: IB Economics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shift rightward
B. Shift leftward
C. Move upward along the wheat supply curve
D. Double immediately

8. An increase in the wage rate paid to industrial production workers increases marginal cost, causing firm supply curves to shift: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2020; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Rightward
B. Leftward
C. Downward
D. Perfectly horizontal

9. Given the linear supply function Qs = −50 + 5P, what is the quantity supplied when market price P = 20? [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge IGCSE 0455; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. 50
B. 100
C. 150
D. -50

10. Rearranging the direct supply function Qs = −20 + 2P yields the inverse supply function: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: AP Microeconomics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. P = 10 + 0.5Qs
B. P = 20 + 2Qs
C. P = −10 + 0.5Qs
D. P = 5 + Qs

11. If agricultural producers expect the future market price of grain to double next month, current grain supply to the market will: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge International AS & A Level 9708; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shift rightward immediately.
B. Shift leftward immediately as inventory is withheld.
C. Move upward along the curve.
D. Increase to maximum capacity.

12. Short-run marginal cost rises as output expands due to: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: IB Economics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. The law of diminishing marginal returns.
B. Increasing economies of scale.
C. Decreasing raw material prices.
D. Perfect consumer utility maximization.

13. Market supply is geometrically derived by taking the: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2019; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Vertical summation of individual firm supply curves.
B. Horizontal summation of individual firm supply curves at each price level.
C. Average cost curve of the largest market producer.
D. Ratio of price elasticities of supply across firms.

14. An increase in statutory environmental compliance regulations that raises operating costs for chemical manufacturers causes supply to: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: NECO 2021; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shift leftward
B. Shift rightward
C. Move downward along the curve
D. Remain unchanged

15. An ad valorem percentage tax on production changes the supply curve by: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge International AS & A Level 9708; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shifting it downward parallel to the original curve.
B. Pivoting it upward and making it steeper as price increases.
C. Shifting it horizontally rightward.
D. Converting it into a vertical straight line.

16. A reduction in import tariffs on imported raw steel will shift the supply curve for domestic machinery manufacturers: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: JAMB 2021; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Leftward
B. Rightward
C. Vertically upward
D. Outward parallel to the y-axis

17. In competitive markets under perfect competition, the short-run individual firm supply curve corresponds to the segment of its: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: AP Microeconomics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Marginal cost curve above average variable cost.
B. Average fixed cost curve.
C. Total revenue curve.
D. Marginal revenue curve below price.

18. Severe drought conditions affecting coffee-producing regions represent a supply shock that shifts coffee supply: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge IGCSE 0455; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Rightward
B. Leftward
C. Downward along the curve
D. Parallel to the horizontal axis

19. If a firm operates with a linear supply function Qs = c + dP, parameter c < 0 implies that: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: null; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Production is profitable at zero price.
B. A minimum threshold price is required before any positive output is supplied.
C. Supply is perfectly price elastic.
D. Marginal cost is negative.

20. An increase in the number of competing firms entering a market will cause aggregate market supply to: [Type: MCQ; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2022; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]
A. Shift leftward
B. Shift rightward
C. Contract along the curve
D. Become perfectly inelastic

21. Calculate quantity supplied for linear supply function Qs = −100 + 10P when market price P = 25. [Type: Hybrid; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2021; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

22. Given initial supply function Qs = −20 + 4P, determine the new supply equation after a specific unit tax of USD 2 per unit is imposed (P replaced by P − 2). [Type: Hybrid; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge International AS & A Level 9708; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

23. Identify the specialized supply relationship existing between wool and mutton obtained from sheep farming. [Type: Hybrid; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: NECO 2020; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

24. Calculate the absolute shift in supply if a production subsidy expands quantity supplied from Q1 = 500 to Q2 = 650 at price P = 50. [Type: Hybrid; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: JAMB 2022; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

25. State the direction of supply curve shift for commercial airlines following a substantial drop in global aviation fuel prices. [Type: Hybrid; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge IGCSE 0455; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

26. **Analyze how the introduction of a specific unit tax (t) versus a unit production subsidy (s) alters the mathematical supply equation and graphical positioning of a competitive supply curve.** [Type: Theory; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge International AS & A Level 9708; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

27. **Define joint supply and competitive supply, providing a detailed economic analysis of how an increase in market demand for beef impacts the leather hides market (joint supply) and the land available for wheat farming (competitive supply).** [Type: Theory; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: WAEC 2022; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

28. **Distinguish between a movement along a supply curve (change in quantity supplied) and a shift of the supply curve (change in supply), illustrating each with appropriate graphs and real-world triggers.** [Type: Theory; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: Cambridge IGCSE 0455; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

29. **Explain how technological advances and changes in factor input prices influence short-run marginal cost curves and aggregate industry supply curves.** [Type: Theory; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: AP Microeconomics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]

30. **You are an agricultural policy adviser evaluating market conditions for bio-fuel energy crops. Discuss how price expectations, government land-use regulations, and climatic factors interact to shift competitive supply in agricultural markets.** [Type: Theory; Subject: Economics; Topic: L1.10 Theory of Supply: Determinants and Behavior; Format: Non-Sim; Exam: IB Economics; Answer-Method: text-exclusive]